Amend #448 to avoid suspicious extension implication in GHC 9.8! (under review) (#604)
ghc-proposals/ghc-proposals: proposals/0448-type-variable-scoping.rst

because we no longer have to check whether ``a`` is in scope before identifying the ``a`` in ``f (Just @a x) = ...`` is a binding site or an occurrence.

The other change in this restatement is the use of new extension ``-XTypeAbstractions`` instead of the current status of piggy-backing on the combination of ``-XTypeApplications`` and ``-XScopedTypeVariables`` (*both* need to be enabled today).

> This proposal suggests instead that ``-XScopedTypeVariables`` and ``-XScopedTypeVariables`` should enable this feature in a deprecated manner, to encourage users to use ``-XTypeAbstractions`` instead.

Author: How's this? Still not great wording, but maybe a bit better?

```suggestion
This proposal suggests that ``-XScopedTypeVariables`` and ``-XScopedTypeVariables`` jointly enabling this feature should be deprecated, and at some later point removed. Users should use ``-XTypeAbstractions`` instead, and the deprecation period only exists so they can have a smother migration without sudden breakage before doing so.
```

> This proposal suggests instead that ``-XScopedTypeVariables`` and ``-XScopedTypeVariables`` should enable this feature in a deprecated manner, to encourage users to use ``-XTypeAbstractions`` instead.

Reviewer: It says `ScopedTypeVariables` twice. Should one of them be `TypeApplications`?

> This proposal suggests instead that ``-XScopedTypeVariables`` and ``-XScopedTypeVariables`` should enable this feature in a deprecated manner, to encourage users to use ``-XTypeAbstractions`` instead.

Author: Oh, hah! Yes it should.

> This proposal suggests instead that ``-XScopedTypeVariables`` and ``-XScopedTypeVariables`` should enable this feature in a deprecated manner, to encourage users to use ``-XTypeAbstractions`` instead.

Author: ```suggestion
This proposal suggests that ``-XScopedTypeVariables`` and ``-XTypeApplications`` jointly enabling this feature should be deprecated, and at some later point removed. Users should use ``-XTypeAbstractions`` instead, and the deprecation period only exists so they can have a smother migration without sudden breakage before doing so.
```

> This proposal suggests instead that ``-XScopedTypeVariables`` and ``-XScopedTypeVariables`` should enable this feature in a deprecated manner, to encourage users to use ``-XTypeAbstractions`` instead.

Reviewer 2: I'd put a period before "The deprecation period only exists..."

> This proposal suggests instead that ``-XScopedTypeVariables`` and ``-XScopedTypeVariables`` should enable this feature in a deprecated manner, to encourage users to use ``-XTypeAbstractions`` instead.

Reviewer 2: > jointly enabling this feature

What is "this feature"?   Try 
```
This proposal suggests that initially ``-XScopedTypeVariables`` and ``-XScopedTypeVariables`` should jointly enable type applications in constructor pattens; but that this combination should be deprecated, and at some later point removed.

> This proposal suggests instead that ``-XScopedTypeVariables`` and ``-XScopedTypeVariables`` should enable this feature in a deprecated manner, to encourage users to use ``-XTypeAbstractions`` instead.

Author: ```suggestion
This proposal suggests that initially ``-XScopedTypeVariables`` and ``-XScopedTypeVariables`` should jointly enable type applications in constructor patterns; but that this combination doing so should be deprecated, and at some later point removed.
```
I added "doing so" to make clear we don't want to get rid of enabling both extensions in general. (People have used scoped type variables and regular type applications for years!) It is just the combination of them enabling this that is suggested to be deprecated.

> This proposal suggests instead that ``-XScopedTypeVariables`` and ``-XScopedTypeVariables`` should enable this feature in a deprecated manner, to encourage users to use ``-XTypeAbstractions`` instead.

Author: @simonpj does this look good?

> This proposal suggests instead that ``-XScopedTypeVariables`` and ``-XScopedTypeVariables`` should enable this feature in a deprecated manner, to encourage users to use ``-XTypeAbstractions`` instead.

Reviewer 2: good

We have conflicting principles at play:

- New experimental functionality should not be gated under older established extensions

> - Breaking changes under established extensions --- even if it only effects experimental functionality that should have not been there in the first place --- should be avoided.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Breaking changes under established extensions --- even if it only affects experimental functionality that should have not been there in the first place --- should be avoided.
```

Author: Thanks!

       tyapp_or_pat → '@' atype    -- '@' is in prefix position
                    → apat

#. When ``-XScopedTypeVariables`` and ``-XTypeApplications`` are enabled, also imply ``-XTypeAbstractions``, but with a warning that this implication is deprecated and just done temporarily for compatability.
   Only warn if ``-XTypeAbstractions`` is needed.

>    (Don't just warn any time both of those extensions are enabled!)

Author: Yes that is what I was thinking. I was hoping structured diagnostic messages might make it easier to coalesce the warning so it only appears once?

>    (Don't just warn any time both of those extensions are enabled!)

Reviewer 2: Can we be more explicit here?  I think you intend this. Consider a point in the program where `-XTypeAbstractions` is required (namely, if a constructor pattern has a visible type application; and in the future, a type lambda).  Then
* Accept the construct (a) if `-XTypeAbstractions` is enabled or (b) if both `-XScopedTypeVariables` and `-XTypeApplications` are enabled.
* If (b) holds but not (a), emit a warning, suggesting using `-XTypeApplications`.
* After N releases (specify N) remove clause (b).

I think that is what you intend?  Let's just say so.

>    (Don't just warn any time both of those extensions are enabled!)

Author: Yes, that is exactly what I mean. Any preference for what `N` should be?

>    (Don't just warn any time both of those extensions are enabled!)

Author: I went with "2", let me know if the new version is satisfactory!

       tyapp_or_pat → '@' atype    -- '@' is in prefix position
                    → apat

> #. For backwards compatibility, accept the previous extension to the pattern grammar (a) if ``-XTypeAbstractions`` is enabled or (b) if both ``-XScopedTypeVariables`` and ``-XTypeApplications`` are enabled.

Reviewer 2: This is still confusing.  What is "the previous extension".  Do you mean previous to this proposal?  No, you mean the thing in item (1)!

Also we don't need (a) because it is already covered in item (1), and that is nothing to do with back-compat.  Try this
```
3. For backward compatiblity, *also* accept type application syntax in constructor patterns if both
   ``-XScopedTypeVariables`` and ``-XTypeApplications`` are enabled, but ``-XTypeAbstractions`` is not.
    In that case, emit a warning, stating that type applications in constructor patterns should be
    enabled with ``-XTypeAbstractions``, and that the temporary expedient of enabling it by the 
   combination of ``-XScopedTypeVariables`` and ``-XTypeApplications`` will be removed.

   After 2 releases remove clause (b); ``-XTypeAbstractions`` will be the only way to enable this feature.
```

Author: I applied this manually, thanks!

   We expect a future proposal to remedy this problem, with either a modifier or some symbol.
   For example, perhaps we would say e.g. ``f (Just @(*a) x) = ...`` to denote an occurrence of already-in-scope type variable ``a``.

#. Backward-compatibility with the current implementation,
   which merely requires both ``-XScopedTypeVariables`` and ``-XTypeApplications`` to be in effect and not any extension dedicated to this feature,
   is preserved.

>    But whenever this is used a deprecation warning will be issued.

Author: ```suggestion
   But whenever the old way of enabling this feature is used, a deprecation warning will be issued.
```

   We expect a future proposal to remedy this problem, with either a modifier or some symbol.
   For example, perhaps we would say e.g. ``f (Just @(*a) x) = ...`` to denote an occurrence of already-in-scope type variable ``a``.

#. Backward-compatibility with the current implementation,

>    which requires both ``-XScopedTypeVariables`` and ``-XTypeApplications`` to be in effect but nothing more,

Reviewer 2: What is this "nothign more" bit? I'm lost.

Author: ```suggestion
   which requires both ``-XScopedTypeVariables`` and ``-XTypeApplications`` to be in effect but does not require any extension dedicated to this feature,
```
just trying to restart the status quo. Here is a longer version, but we could also just do something like
```suggestion
   which merely requires ``-XScopedTypeVariables`` and ``-XTypeApplications`` to be in effect,
```

Author: @simonpj does one of these look good?

Reviewer 2: good!

   is preserved.
   But whenver this is used a deprecation warning will be issued.

#. We have the option of removing the above implication (when is not proposed).

>    That will clean up new experimental functionality from leaking under established extensions.

Reviewer 2: But it *is* proposed!  It's not an option, it's part of the proposed change spec.

Author: Oops! A holdover from when it wasn't.

Author: Unfortunately I couldn't leave a suggestion in this thread, but see what I did in 47c622cefa710e08e62e375af79c4eec638acfda.
